"Bridge the Gap" by DavesCodeMusings

[
    An example of using a ladder to span a chasm in order to reach a room that is inaccessible otherwise.
]

[ Define the engineering space as three rooms with a chasm in Engineering Central blocking passage to Engineering North. ]
Engineering South is a room. It is south of Engineering Central. "The south end of the engineering area is bathed in red emergency lighting, just like the rest of the base. There's a wide variety of interesting and important looking equiptment here. However, it appears to be non-functional, because although the power switches are in the on position, not a single display is lit up."

Engineering Central is a room. "The engineering space continues on in a long north-south coridoor, but there is a deep chasm at the north end. Probably damage from the recent earthquake. It looks  about three meters across."

Engineering North is a room. It is north of Engineering Central. "The north end of the engineering Central is full of dial, knobs, and displays. The most interesting one is a breaker labeled as main power. It is currently in the off position."

The Main Breaker is in Engineering North. "A dual-pole, 200 amp breaker, currently in the off position."

[ The player starts in Engineering South, and must use the ladder in Enggineering South to span the chasm in Engineering Central. ]
The player is in Engineering South.

The ladder is in Engineering South.

After dropping ladder when location is Engineering Central, say "The ladder is just long enough to span the chasm. If you tread carefully, you can probably use it as a bridge and cross to the other side."

[ Normally, the way is blocked because of the chasm. ]
Instead of going north when the location is Engineering Central, say "The chasm is too wide to jump across."

[ But, when the ladder is in Engineering Central, it's used as a bridge to span the chasm. ]
Instead of going north in the presence of ladder when the location is Engineering Central:
	say "Fortunately, the ladder is just long enough to span the chasm and you can use it as a bridge. Try not to fall.";
	move player to Engineering North;

[ Make the ladder immovable once it's served its purpose. ]
Instead of taking ladder when location is Engineering Central, say "The ladder is wedged too tightly into the chasm to remove."

[ Stop the player from leaving the ladder where it's inaccessible. ]
Instead of dropping ladder when location is Engineering North, say "You'll need the ladder to span the chasm on the way back."
