"Shipboard" by DavesCodeMusings

[
  Redefine the usual north, south, east, west directions for stories that take place on a ship. Most of this is covered in the manual,
  but the trick to prevent 's' from being interpreted as an abreviation for south came from CuriousDannii on Stack Overflow.
  https://stackoverflow.com/questions/69771971/how-to-understand-s-only-as-abreviation-for-starboard-not-south-in-inform7-i/69779974#69779974

  Test using fore, aft, port, starboard (or f, a, p, s) to explore the ship. Up and down still work as usual.
]

[ Redefine directions ]
fore is a direction. The opposite of fore is aft. Understand "f" as fore. Understand "forward" as fore.
aft is a direction. The opposite of aft is fore. Understand "a" as aft.
port is a direction. The opposite of port is starboard. Understand "p" as port.
starboard is a direction. The opposite of Starboard is Port. Understand "s" as starboard.

[ Give hints if the player tries to use compass directions. ]
Instead of going north, say "You're on a ship. Maybe you meant fore."
Instead of going east, say "East? Perhaps port is what you were thinking."
Instead of going west, say "'Go west, young man?' Should have thought about that before you joined the navy. Try starboard."
Instead of going south, say "South? There ain't no Mason-Dixon line on this old tub. Did you want to go aft?"

[ Prevent 's' from being confused with 'south'. ]
Does the player mean doing something with south: it is very unlikely.

[ Define a simple ship's layout fore testing. ]
Bow is a room. It is fore of the Mast and aft of the Sea. "Waves are crashing as the ship cuts through the water."
Mast is a room. It is fore of the Stearn and aft of the Bow. "Right in the center of the ship, the thick timber of the mast extends skyward."
Crows Nest is a room. It is up from the Mast. "You can see everything from up here. I think I see my house."
Galley is a room. It is down from the Mast. "It's very dark down here, but there's light coming from above."
Stern is a room. It is aft of the Mast and fore of the Sea. "From here, you can watch the land you once called home receding in the distance."
Starboard Gunwhale is a room. It is starboard of the Mast and port of the Sea. "Be careful you don't end up falling in the sea."
Port Gunwhale is a room. It is port of the Mast and starboard of the Sea. "Watch your step or you'll end up in the drink."

[ Start the player in the middle. ]
The player is in Mast.

[ This is how you die. ]
Instead of going to Sea, end the story saying "Oh look, a shark. I wonder if he'll want to be friends."
